Fall 2019
BBM 103: Introduction to Programming Laboratory I
PROGRAMMING ASSIGNMENT 5
Understanding Data

Introduction:
In this experiment, you will implement a simple Single Layer Neural Network in order to solve
a real wold machine learning problem with a real world data. In this experiment, you will get
familiar Python data science libraries such as; Pandas, NumPy, and Matplotlib. At the end,
you will train the neural network to classify clinical cases to either benign or malignant.

Part 1 - Reading Data
1. You will read the dataset (csv le) with Pandas library. Pandas is a data
structure and data analysis tool for Python. [5 pts]
2. You are also expected to split your dataset into 2 sets; train and test sets.
The training set is used to train the model. In other words, your model
will learn from the training set and tune the weights. For the evaluation
purposes; you will use the test set. You will obtain accuracy results on test
set. You will use 80% of the data for training set and 20% of the data for
test set. [5 pts]
3. There are some values missing in the dataset. You will have complete these
missing values using one of the techniques that you learn in your class. [10
pts]
4. You are also expected to visualize pairwise correlations of the attributes of
training set. You will use matplotlib for that task. [10 pts]

Part 2 - Implementing a Single Layer Neural Network
you do not have to implement from scratch. You are expected to complete
the given code. You have to implement forward and backward propagation
using numpy library. [20 pts for forward propagation, 20 pts for backward
propagation]

Part 3 - Plot Loss and Accuracy in each Iteration for Test Set
1. to predict the nal value( either 0 or 1) for each row(sample) in your test
set. You will map each test output row into 0 or 1 by checking if the value is
greater than 0.5 or else. If the value is greater than 0.5 then your prediction
is 1 and else is 0. [10 pts]
2. plot accuracy change in test set for each iteration. You will also expected
to plot loss change in each iteration. Your loss matrix will have more than
one values in order to plot a loss value you will average the loss matrix in
each iteration. [20 pts]

The aim of this assignment is;
1. Learning to use libraries
2. Learning to understand and analyse a given problem
3. The resulting accuracy percantage is not important. The important part is to 
understand the problem and implementing it.